How to release a new EasyAdmin version
======================================

1. Update the value of the `EasyAdminBundle::VERSION` constant (in the
   `EasyAdminBundle.php` file) to remove the `-DEV` suffix and prepare the
   stable release. Example: change `1.12.6-DEV` to `1.12.6`
2. Commit and push the previous change.
3. Execute the `yarn encore production` script to compile the CSS and JavaScript
   assets into `src/Resources/public/`. If there are any changes, commit and push them.
4. Execute the `php ./src/Resources/bin/fix-assets-manifest-file.php` script to
   fix the contents of the 'manifest.json' file generated by Webpack Encore
5. Create the tag and sign it. Example: `git tag -s v1.12.6` (the tag version is
   always prefixed with `v`, but remove it for the tag comment: `1.12.6`).
6. Push the tag to GitHub. Example: `git push origin v1.12.6`
7. Prepare the changelog of the new version with the custom `changelog` Git
   command. Example: `git changelog v1.12.5` (the version passed to the command
   is the previous version used as a reference to list the changes).
8. Go to https://github.com/javiereguiluz/EasyAdminBundle/releases and click
   on `Draft a new release`. Select the tag pushed before and paste the
   changelog contents.
9. Update again the value of the `EasyAdminBundle::VERSION` constant to start
   the development of the next version. Example: change `1.12.6` to `1.12.7-DEV`

Resources
---------

The custom `changelog` Git command used to generate the version changelog can
be defined as a global Git alias:

    $ git config --global alias.changelog "!f() { git log $1...$2 --pretty=format:'[%h] %s' --reverse; } ; f"
