Resources/doc/3-customizing-first-backend.md, before:

Chapter 3. Customizing your First Backend
=========================================

EasyAdmin proposes an hybrid approach to customize the backends:

  * Use basic YAML-based configuration when it's simple to do so;
  * Use PHP classes and methods for more complex features.

This approach ensures a smooth developer experience and balances simplicity
and extensibility.

Customize the URL Prefix Used to Access the Backend
---------------------------------------------------

By default, your backend will be accessible at the `/admin` URI of your Symfony
application. This value is defined in the `prefix` option used when loading
the routes of the bundle. You are free to change its value to meet your own
backend requirements:

```yaml
# app/config/routing.yml
easy_admin_bundle:
    resource: "@EasyAdminBundle/Controller/"
    type:     annotation
    prefix:   /_secret_backend  # <-- change this value

# ...
```

Customize the Name of the Backend
---------------------------------

By default, the backend will display `Easy Admin` as its name. Use the
`site_name` option to change this value:

```yaml
# app/config/config.yml
easy_admin:
    site_name: 'ACME Megacorp.'
    # ...
```

Companies and organizations needs can be so different, that the contents of
this option are not restricted. In fact, the contents are displayed with
the `raw` Twig filter. This means that you can use any HTML markup to display
the name exactly as you are required:

```yaml
# app/config/config.yml
easy_admin:
    site_name: 'ACME <em style="font-size: 80%; color: yellow">Megacorp.</em>'
    # ...
```

If you want to display your logo, use an `<img>` HTML element as the site
name. When using an image, EasyAdmin automatically resizes it to fit the
backend width. The following example would show the beautiful Symfony logo as
the name of your backend:

```yaml
# app/config/config.yml
easy_admin:
    site_name: '<img src="http://symfony.com/logos/symfony_white_01.png" />'
    # ...
```

Customize the Order of the Main Menu Items
------------------------------------------

Main menu items follow the same order of the entities defined in the admin
configuration file. So you just have to reorder the list of entities to
reorder the main menu elements.

Customize the Label of the Main Menu Items
------------------------------------------

By default, main menu items are called after the entities that they represent.
Use this alternative configuration format to define a custom label for each
menu item:

```yaml
# app/config/config.yml
easy_admin:
    entities:
        Clients: AppBundle\Entity\Customer
        Orders: AppBundle\Entity\Order
        Inventory: AppBundle\Entity\Product
```

The keys defined under the `entities` key (in this case, `Clients`, `Orders`
and `Inventory`) will be used as the labels of the main menu items. If the
keys include white spaces or any reserved YAML character, enclose them with
quotes:

```yaml
# app/config/config.yml
easy_admin:
    entities:
        'Active Clients': AppBundle\Entity\Customer
        'Pending Orders': AppBundle\Entity\Order
        'Inventory (2015)': AppBundle\Entity\Product
```

You can also explicitly define the entity label using the `label` option:

```yaml
# app/config/config.yml
easy_admin:
    entities:
        Customers: 
            label: 'Active Clients'
            class: AppBundle\Entity\Customer
        Orders: 
            label: 'Pending Orders'
            class: AppBundle\Entity\Order
```

Customize the Actions Displayed for Each Entity
-----------------------------------------------

The backend provides six different actions for each entity: ``delete``,
``edit``, ``list``, ``new``, ``search`` and ``show``. The ``list`` action is
mandatory for all entities, but the rest of actions can be disabled. Use the
global ``actions`` option to set the actions available in your backend:

```yaml
# app/config/config.yml
easy_admin:
    # this option makes the backend a read-only application: you cannot
    # create, delete or modify entities
    actions: ['show', 'search']
    # ...
```

In the current version of EasyAdmin you cannot define custom actions.

Customize the Translation of the Backend Interface
--------------------------------------------------

The backend uses the same language as the underlying Symfony application, which
is usually configured in the `locale` option of the `app/config/parameters.yml`
file. The current version of EasyAdmin supports tens of languages and we're
actively looking for more translations contributed by the community.

Customize the Translation of the Main Menu Items
------------------------------------------------

In addition to the built-in backend elements, you may need to translate the
names of your entities, because they are displayed in the main menu. To do so,
use translation keys instead of contents in the configuration file:

```yaml
# app/config/config.yml
easy_admin:
    entities:
        app.customers:
            class: AppBundle\Entity\Customer
        Orders: 
            label: app.orders
            class: AppBundle\Entity\Order
```

The `app.customers` and `app.orders` values are not the real entity names but
the translation keys. If your application includes a translation file which
defines the value of those keys for the selected language, you'll see the main
menu items translated.

Customize the Security of the Backend Interface
-----------------------------------------------

EasyAdmin relies on the built-in Symfony security features to restrict the
access to the backend. In case you need it, checkout the
[Security Chapter](http://symfony.com/doc/current/book/security.html) of the
official Symfony documentation to learn how to restrict the access to the
backend section of your application.

In addition, when accessing a protected backend, EasyAdmin will display the
name of user who is logged in the application.

Commit message:

Actions can now be defined at entity level

Resources/doc/3-customizing-first-backend.md, after:

Chapter 3. Customizing your First Backend
=========================================

EasyAdmin proposes an hybrid approach to customize the backends:

  * Use basic YAML-based configuration when it's simple to do so;
  * Use PHP classes and methods for more complex features.

This approach ensures a smooth developer experience and balances simplicity
and extensibility.

Customize the URL Prefix Used to Access the Backend
---------------------------------------------------

By default, your backend will be accessible at the `/admin` URI of your Symfony
application. This value is defined in the `prefix` option used when loading
the routes of the bundle. You are free to change its value to meet your own
backend requirements:

```yaml
# app/config/routing.yml
easy_admin_bundle:
    resource: "@EasyAdminBundle/Controller/"
    type:     annotation
    prefix:   /_secret_backend  # <-- change this value

# ...
```

Customize the Name of the Backend
---------------------------------

By default, the backend will display `Easy Admin` as its name. Use the
`site_name` option to change this value:

```yaml
# app/config/config.yml
easy_admin:
    site_name: 'ACME Megacorp.'
    # ...
```

Companies and organizations needs can be so different, that the contents of
this option are not restricted. In fact, the contents are displayed with
the `raw` Twig filter. This means that you can use any HTML markup to display
the name exactly as you are required:

```yaml
# app/config/config.yml
easy_admin:
    site_name: 'ACME <em style="font-size: 80%; color: yellow">Megacorp.</em>'
    # ...
```

If you want to display your logo, use an `<img>` HTML element as the site
name. When using an image, EasyAdmin automatically resizes it to fit the
backend width. The following example would show the beautiful Symfony logo as
the name of your backend:

```yaml
# app/config/config.yml
easy_admin:
    site_name: '<img src="http://symfony.com/logos/symfony_white_01.png" />'
    # ...
```

Customize the Order of the Main Menu Items
------------------------------------------

Main menu items follow the same order of the entities defined in the admin
configuration file. So you just have to reorder the list of entities to
reorder the main menu elements.

Customize the Label of the Main Menu Items
------------------------------------------

By default, main menu items are called after the entities that they represent.
Use this alternative configuration format to define a custom label for each
menu item:

```yaml
# app/config/config.yml
easy_admin:
    entities:
        Clients: AppBundle\Entity\Customer
        Orders: AppBundle\Entity\Order
        Inventory: AppBundle\Entity\Product
```

The keys defined under the `entities` key (in this case, `Clients`, `Orders`
and `Inventory`) will be used as the labels of the main menu items. If the
keys include white spaces or any reserved YAML character, enclose them with
quotes:

```yaml
# app/config/config.yml
easy_admin:
    entities:
        'Active Clients': AppBundle\Entity\Customer
        'Pending Orders': AppBundle\Entity\Order
        'Inventory (2015)': AppBundle\Entity\Product
```

You can also explicitly define the entity label using the `label` option:

```yaml
# app/config/config.yml
easy_admin:
    entities:
        Customers: 
            label: 'Active Clients'
            class: AppBundle\Entity\Customer
        Orders: 
            label: 'Pending Orders'
            class: AppBundle\Entity\Order
```

Customize the Actions Displayed for Each Entity
-----------------------------------------------

The backend provides six different actions for each entity: ``delete``,
``edit``, ``list``, ``new``, ``search`` and ``show``. The ``list`` action is
mandatory for all entities, but the rest of actions can be disabled. Use the
global ``actions`` option to set the actions available in your backend:

```yaml
# app/config/config.yml
easy_admin:
    # this option makes the backend a read-only application: you cannot
    # create, delete or modify entities
    actions: ['show', 'search']
    # ...
```

The global `actions` option is applied to all entities. However, you can also
define the `actions` option for each entity to override that global option:

```yaml
# app/config/config.yml
easy_admin:
    actions: ['show', 'search']
    entities:
        Customers:
            actions: ['delete', 'edit', 'show']
            class: AppBundle\Entity\Customer
        Orders:
            actions: ['edit', 'show', 'search', 'new']
            class: AppBundle\Entity\Order
```

In the current version of EasyAdmin you cannot define custom actions.

Customize the Translation of the Backend Interface
--------------------------------------------------

The backend uses the same language as the underlying Symfony application, which
is usually configured in the `locale` option of the `app/config/parameters.yml`
file. The current version of EasyAdmin supports tens of languages and we're
actively looking for more translations contributed by the community.

Customize the Translation of the Main Menu Items
------------------------------------------------

In addition to the built-in backend elements, you may need to translate the
names of your entities, because they are displayed in the main menu. To do so,
use translation keys instead of contents in the configuration file:

```yaml
# app/config/config.yml
easy_admin:
    entities:
        app.customers:
            class: AppBundle\Entity\Customer
        Orders: 
            label: app.orders
            class: AppBundle\Entity\Order
```

The `app.customers` and `app.orders` values are not the real entity names but
the translation keys. If your application includes a translation file which
defines the value of those keys for the selected language, you'll see the main
menu items translated.

Customize the Security of the Backend Interface
-----------------------------------------------

EasyAdmin relies on the built-in Symfony security features to restrict the
access to the backend. In case you need it, checkout the
[Security Chapter](http://symfony.com/doc/current/book/security.html) of the
official Symfony documentation to learn how to restrict the access to the
backend section of your application.

In addition, when accessing a protected backend, EasyAdmin will display the
name of user who is logged in the application.
