Resources/doc/4-customizing-list-action.md, before:

Chapter 4. Customizing the List Action
======================================

The first simple backend created with EasyAdmin used a compact configuration
like the following:

```yaml
# app/config/config.yml
easy_admin:
    entities:
        - AppBundle\Entity\Customer
        - AppBundle\Entity\Order
        - AppBundle\Entity\Product
```

When you start customizing the backend, instead of the compact configuration
format, you must use the expanded format:

```yaml
# app/config/config.yml
easy_admin:
    entities:
        Customer:
            class: AppBundle\Entity\Customer
        Order:
            class: AppBundle\Entity\Order
        Product:
            class: AppBundle\Entity\Product
```

This expanded configuration format allows to define lots of attributes for each
entity, as explained the following chapters:

```yaml
# app/config/config.yml
easy_admin:
    entities:
        Customer:
            class: AppBundle\Entity\Customer
            list:
                fields: ['id', 'firstName', 'lastName', 'phone', 'email']
        # ...
```

Refer to the [EasyAdmin Configuration Reference](10-configuration-reference.md)
chapter to check out all the available configuration formats.

Customize the Title of the Page
-------------------------------

By default, the title of the listing page just displays the name of the entity.
Define the `title` option to set a custom page title:

```yaml
# app/config/config.yml
easy_admin:
    entities:
        Customer:
            class: AppBundle\Entity\Customer
            list:
                title: "Most recent customers"
        # ...
```

Customize the Label of the Button to Create new Items
-----------------------------------------------------

Listing page includes a button in the top right part of the page to create new
items of the same entity. By default, this button displays a generic label that
includes the name of the entity. Define the `label` option of the `new` action
to change this value:

```yaml
# app/config/config.yml
easy_admin:
    entities:
        Customer:
            class: AppBundle\Entity\Customer
            new:  # <-- define it in the 'new' action, not in the 'list' action
                button_label: "Add Customer"
        # ...
```

Customize the Number of Item Rows Displayed
-------------------------------------------

By default, listings display a maximum of `15` rows. Define the
`list_max_results` option to change this value:

```yaml
# app/config/config.yml
easy_admin:
    list_max_results: 30
    # ...
```

Customize the Actions Displayed for Each Item
---------------------------------------------

By default, listings just display the `Edit` action for each item. If you also
want to add the popular `Show` action, define the `list_actions` option:

```yaml
# app/config/config.yml
easy_admin:
    list_actions: ['edit', 'show']
    # ...
```

In the current version of EasyAdmin you cannot define custom actions.

Customize the Columns Displayed
-------------------------------

By default, the backend makes some "smart guesses" to decide which columns to
display in listings to make them look "good enough". Define the `fields` option
in the `list` configuration of any entity to explicitly set the fields to
display:

```yaml
# app/config/config.yml
easy_admin:
    entities:
        Customer:
            class: AppBundle\Entity\Customer
            list:
                fields: ['id', 'firstName', 'lastName', 'phone', 'email']
    # ...
```

### Virtual Entity Fields

Sometimes, it's useful to display values which are not entity properties. For
example, if your `Customer` entity defines the `firstName` and `lastName`
properties, you may want to just display a column called `Name` with both
values merged. These columns are called *virtual fields* because they don't
really exist as Doctrine entity fields.

First, add this new virtual field (`name`) to the entity configuration:

```yaml
easy_admin:
    entities:
        Customer:
            class: AppBundle\Entity\Customer
            list:
                fields: ['id', 'name', 'phone', 'email']
    # ...
```

Now, if you reload the backend, you'll see that the virtual field only displays
`Inaccessible` as its value. The reason is that virtual field `name` does not
match any of the entity's properties. To fix this issue, add a new public
method in your entity called `getXxx()` or `xxx()`, where `xxx` is the name of
the virtual field (in this case the field is called `name`, so the method must
be called `getName()` or `name()`):

```php
namespace AppBundle\Entity;

use Doctrine\ORM\Mapping as ORM;

/** @ORM\Entity */
class Customer
{
    // ...

    public function getName()
    {
        return $this->getFirstName().' '.$this->getLastName();
    }
}
```

That's it. Reload your backend and now you'll see the right values of this
virtual field. By default, virtual fields are displayed as text contents. If
your virtual field is a *boolean* value or a date, define its type using the
`type` option:

```yaml
# in this example, the virtual fields 'is_eligible' and 'last_contact' will
# be considered strings, even if they return boolean and DateTime values
# respectively
easy_admin:
    entities:
        Customer:
            class: AppBundle\Entity\Customer
            list:
                fields: ['id', 'is_eligible', 'last_contact']
    # ...

# in this example, the virtual fields 'is_eligible' and 'last_contact' will
# be displayed as a boolean and a DateTime value respectively
easy_admin:
    entities:
        Customer:
            class: AppBundle\Entity\Customer
            list:
                fields:
                    - 'id'
                    - { property: 'is_eligible',  type: 'boolean' }
                    - { property: 'last_contact', type: 'datetime' }
    # ...
```

The only significant limitation of virtual fields is that you cannot reorder
listings using these fields.

Customize the Labels of the Columns
-----------------------------------

By default, column labels are a "humanized" version of the related Doctrine
entity property name. If your property is called `published`, the column label
will be `Published` and if your property is called `dateOfBirth`, the column
label will be `Date of birth`.

In case you want to define a custom label for one or all columns, just use the
following expanded field configuration:

```yaml
# app/config/config.yml
easy_admin:
    entities:
        Customer:
            class: AppBundle\Entity\Customer
            list:
                fields: ['id', 'name', { property: 'email', label: 'Contact' }]
    # ...
```

Instead of using a string to define the name of the property (e.g. `email`) you
have to define a hash with the name of the property (`property: 'email'`) and
the custom label you want to display (`label: 'Contact'`).

If your listings contain lots of properties and most of them define their own
custom label, consider using the alternative YAML syntax for sequences to
improve the legibility of your backend configuration. The following example is
equivalent to the above example:

```yaml
# app/config/config.yml
easy_admin:
    entities:
        Customer:
            class: AppBundle\Entity\Customer
            list:
                fields:
                    - 'id'
                    - 'name'
                    - { property: 'email', label: 'Contact' }
    # ...
```

Customize the Format of the Dates and Numbers
---------------------------------------------

### Date Formatting

By default, these are the formats applied to date related fields (read the
[date configuration options](http://php.net/manual/en/function.date.php) PHP
manual page in case you don't know the meaning of these options):

  * `date`: `Y-m-d`
  * `time`:  `H:i:s`
  * `datetime`: `F j, Y H:i`

These default formats can be overridden in two ways: globally for all entities
and locally for each entity field. Define the global `formats` option to set
the new formats for all entities (define any or all the `date`, `time` and
`datetime` options):

```yaml
easy_admin:
    formats:
        date:     'd/m/Y'
        time:     'H:i'
        datetime: 'd/m/Y H:i:s'
    entities:
        # ...
```

The value of the `format` option is passed to the `format()` method of the
`DateTime` class, so you can use any of the
[date configuration options](http://php.net/manual/en/function.date.php)
defined by PHP.

The same `format` option can be applied to any date-based entity field. This
field configuration always overrides the global date formats:

```yaml
easy_admin:
    entities:
        Customer:
            class: AppBundle\Entity\Customer
            list:
                fields:
                    - { property: 'dateOfBirth', format: 'j/n/Y' }
                    # ...
    # ...
```

### Number Formatting

Number related fields (`bigint`, `integer`, `smallint`, `decimal`, `float`)
are displayed using the appropriate formatting according to the locale of the
Symfony application. Use the `format` option to explicitly set the format
applied to numeric fields.

The global `formats` option applies the same formatting for all numeric values:

```yaml
easy_admin:
    formats:
        # ...
        number: '%.2f'
    entities:
        # ...
```

In this case, the value of the `format` option is passed to the `sprintf()`
function, so you can use any of its
[format specifiers](http://php.net/manual/en/function.sprintf.php).

The same `format` option can be applied to any numeric entity field. This
field configuration always overrides the global number format:

```yaml
easy_admin:
    entities:
        Product:
            class: AppBundle\Entity\Product
            list:
                fields:
                    - { property: 'serialNumber', format: '%010s' }
                    - { property: 'margin', format: '%01.2f' }
                    # ...
    # ...
```

Display Images Field Types
--------------------------

If some field stores the URL of an image, you can show the actual image in the
listing instead of its URL. Just set the type of the field to `image`:

```yaml
easy_admin:
    entities:
        Product:
            class: AppBundle\Entity\Product
            list:
                fields:
                    - { property: 'photo', format: 'image' }
                    # ...
    # ...
```

The `photo` field will be displayed as a `<img>` HTML element whose `src`
attribute is the value of the field. If you store relative paths, the image may
not be displayed correctly. In those cases, define the `base_path` option to
set the path to be prefixed to the image:

```yaml
easy_admin:
    entities:
        Product:
            class: AppBundle\Entity\Product
            list:
                fields:
                    - { property: 'photo', format: 'image', base_path: '/img/' }
                    # ...
    # ...
```

The value of the `base_path` can be a relative or absolute URL and even a
Symfony parameter:

```yaml
# relative path
- { property: 'photo', format: 'image', base_path: '/img/products/' }

# absolute path pointing to an external host
- { property: 'photo', format: 'image', base_path: 'http://static.acme.org/img/' }

# Symfony container parameter
- { property: 'photo', format: 'image', base_path: '%vich_uploader.mappings.product_image%' }
```

The image base path can also be set in the entity, to avoid repeating its
value for different fields or different actions (`list`, `show`):

```yaml
easy_admin:
    entities:
        Product:
            class: AppBundle\Entity\Product
            image_base_path: 'http://static.acme.org/img/'
            list:
                fields:
                    - { property: 'photo', format: 'image' }
                    # ...
    # ...
```

The base paths defined for a field always have priority over the one defined
for the entity.

Commit message:

Page titles now can use entity_name and entity_id variables

Resources/doc/4-customizing-list-action.md, after:

Chapter 4. Customizing the List Action
======================================

The first simple backend created with EasyAdmin used a compact configuration
like the following:

```yaml
# app/config/config.yml
easy_admin:
    entities:
        - AppBundle\Entity\Customer
        - AppBundle\Entity\Order
        - AppBundle\Entity\Product
```

When you start customizing the backend, instead of the compact configuration
format, you must use the expanded format:

```yaml
# app/config/config.yml
easy_admin:
    entities:
        Customer:
            class: AppBundle\Entity\Customer
        Order:
            class: AppBundle\Entity\Order
        Product:
            class: AppBundle\Entity\Product
```

This expanded configuration format allows to define lots of attributes for each
entity, as explained the following chapters:

```yaml
# app/config/config.yml
easy_admin:
    entities:
        Customer:
            class: AppBundle\Entity\Customer
            list:
                fields: ['id', 'firstName', 'lastName', 'phone', 'email']
        # ...
```

Refer to the [EasyAdmin Configuration Reference](10-configuration-reference.md)
chapter to check out all the available configuration formats.

Customize the Title of the Page
-------------------------------

By default, the title of the listing page just displays the name of the entity.
Define the `title` option to set a custom page title:

```yaml
# app/config/config.yml
easy_admin:
    entities:
        Customer:
            class: AppBundle\Entity\Customer
            list:
                title: "Most recent customers"
        # ...
```

The `title` option can include the following variable:

  * `%entity_name%`, resolves to the class name of the current entity (e.g.
    `Customer`, `Product`, `User`, etc.)

Beware that, in Symfony applications, YAML values enclosed with `%` and `%`
have a special meaning. Use two consecutive `%` characters to avoid any issue:

```yaml
easy_admin:
    entities:
        Customer:
            class: AppBundle\Entity\Customer
            list:
                title: '%%entity_name%% listing'
        # ...
```

Customize the Label of the Button to Create new Items
-----------------------------------------------------

Listing page includes a button in the top right part of the page to create new
items of the same entity. By default, this button displays a generic label that
includes the name of the entity. Define the `label` option of the `new` action
to change this value:

```yaml
# app/config/config.yml
easy_admin:
    entities:
        Customer:
            class: AppBundle\Entity\Customer
            new:  # <-- define it in the 'new' action, not in the 'list' action
                button_label: "Add Customer"
        # ...
```

Customize the Number of Item Rows Displayed
-------------------------------------------

By default, listings display a maximum of `15` rows. Define the
`list_max_results` option to change this value:

```yaml
# app/config/config.yml
easy_admin:
    list_max_results: 30
    # ...
```

Customize the Actions Displayed for Each Item
---------------------------------------------

By default, listings just display the `Edit` action for each item. If you also
want to add the popular `Show` action, define the `list_actions` option:

```yaml
# app/config/config.yml
easy_admin:
    list_actions: ['edit', 'show']
    # ...
```

In the current version of EasyAdmin you cannot define custom actions.

Customize the Columns Displayed
-------------------------------

By default, the backend makes some "smart guesses" to decide which columns to
display in listings to make them look "good enough". Define the `fields` option
in the `list` configuration of any entity to explicitly set the fields to
display:

```yaml
# app/config/config.yml
easy_admin:
    entities:
        Customer:
            class: AppBundle\Entity\Customer
            list:
                fields: ['id', 'firstName', 'lastName', 'phone', 'email']
    # ...
```

### Virtual Entity Fields

Sometimes, it's useful to display values which are not entity properties. For
example, if your `Customer` entity defines the `firstName` and `lastName`
properties, you may want to just display a column called `Name` with both
values merged. These columns are called *virtual fields* because they don't
really exist as Doctrine entity fields.

First, add this new virtual field (`name`) to the entity configuration:

```yaml
easy_admin:
    entities:
        Customer:
            class: AppBundle\Entity\Customer
            list:
                fields: ['id', 'name', 'phone', 'email']
    # ...
```

Now, if you reload the backend, you'll see that the virtual field only displays
`Inaccessible` as its value. The reason is that virtual field `name` does not
match any of the entity's properties. To fix this issue, add a new public
method in your entity called `getXxx()` or `xxx()`, where `xxx` is the name of
the virtual field (in this case the field is called `name`, so the method must
be called `getName()` or `name()`):

```php
namespace AppBundle\Entity;

use Doctrine\ORM\Mapping as ORM;

/** @ORM\Entity */
class Customer
{
    // ...

    public function getName()
    {
        return $this->getFirstName().' '.$this->getLastName();
    }
}
```

That's it. Reload your backend and now you'll see the right values of this
virtual field. By default, virtual fields are displayed as text contents. If
your virtual field is a *boolean* value or a date, define its type using the
`type` option:

```yaml
# in this example, the virtual fields 'is_eligible' and 'last_contact' will
# be considered strings, even if they return boolean and DateTime values
# respectively
easy_admin:
    entities:
        Customer:
            class: AppBundle\Entity\Customer
            list:
                fields: ['id', 'is_eligible', 'last_contact']
    # ...

# in this example, the virtual fields 'is_eligible' and 'last_contact' will
# be displayed as a boolean and a DateTime value respectively
easy_admin:
    entities:
        Customer:
            class: AppBundle\Entity\Customer
            list:
                fields:
                    - 'id'
                    - { property: 'is_eligible',  type: 'boolean' }
                    - { property: 'last_contact', type: 'datetime' }
    # ...
```

The only significant limitation of virtual fields is that you cannot reorder
listings using these fields.

Customize the Labels of the Columns
-----------------------------------

By default, column labels are a "humanized" version of the related Doctrine
entity property name. If your property is called `published`, the column label
will be `Published` and if your property is called `dateOfBirth`, the column
label will be `Date of birth`.

In case you want to define a custom label for one or all columns, just use the
following expanded field configuration:

```yaml
# app/config/config.yml
easy_admin:
    entities:
        Customer:
            class: AppBundle\Entity\Customer
            list:
                fields: ['id', 'name', { property: 'email', label: 'Contact' }]
    # ...
```

Instead of using a string to define the name of the property (e.g. `email`) you
have to define a hash with the name of the property (`property: 'email'`) and
the custom label you want to display (`label: 'Contact'`).

If your listings contain lots of properties and most of them define their own
custom label, consider using the alternative YAML syntax for sequences to
improve the legibility of your backend configuration. The following example is
equivalent to the above example:

```yaml
# app/config/config.yml
easy_admin:
    entities:
        Customer:
            class: AppBundle\Entity\Customer
            list:
                fields:
                    - 'id'
                    - 'name'
                    - { property: 'email', label: 'Contact' }
    # ...
```

Customize the Format of the Dates and Numbers
---------------------------------------------

### Date Formatting

By default, these are the formats applied to date related fields (read the
[date configuration options](http://php.net/manual/en/function.date.php) PHP
manual page in case you don't know the meaning of these options):

  * `date`: `Y-m-d`
  * `time`:  `H:i:s`
  * `datetime`: `F j, Y H:i`

These default formats can be overridden in two ways: globally for all entities
and locally for each entity field. Define the global `formats` option to set
the new formats for all entities (define any or all the `date`, `time` and
`datetime` options):

```yaml
easy_admin:
    formats:
        date:     'd/m/Y'
        time:     'H:i'
        datetime: 'd/m/Y H:i:s'
    entities:
        # ...
```

The value of the `format` option is passed to the `format()` method of the
`DateTime` class, so you can use any of the
[date configuration options](http://php.net/manual/en/function.date.php)
defined by PHP.

The same `format` option can be applied to any date-based entity field. This
field configuration always overrides the global date formats:

```yaml
easy_admin:
    entities:
        Customer:
            class: AppBundle\Entity\Customer
            list:
                fields:
                    - { property: 'dateOfBirth', format: 'j/n/Y' }
                    # ...
    # ...
```

### Number Formatting

Number related fields (`bigint`, `integer`, `smallint`, `decimal`, `float`)
are displayed using the appropriate formatting according to the locale of the
Symfony application. Use the `format` option to explicitly set the format
applied to numeric fields.

The global `formats` option applies the same formatting for all numeric values:

```yaml
easy_admin:
    formats:
        # ...
        number: '%.2f'
    entities:
        # ...
```

In this case, the value of the `format` option is passed to the `sprintf()`
function, so you can use any of its
[format specifiers](http://php.net/manual/en/function.sprintf.php).

The same `format` option can be applied to any numeric entity field. This
field configuration always overrides the global number format:

```yaml
easy_admin:
    entities:
        Product:
            class: AppBundle\Entity\Product
            list:
                fields:
                    - { property: 'serialNumber', format: '%010s' }
                    - { property: 'margin', format: '%01.2f' }
                    # ...
    # ...
```

Display Images Field Types
--------------------------

If some field stores the URL of an image, you can show the actual image in the
listing instead of its URL. Just set the type of the field to `image`:

```yaml
easy_admin:
    entities:
        Product:
            class: AppBundle\Entity\Product
            list:
                fields:
                    - { property: 'photo', format: 'image' }
                    # ...
    # ...
```

The `photo` field will be displayed as a `<img>` HTML element whose `src`
attribute is the value of the field. If you store relative paths, the image may
not be displayed correctly. In those cases, define the `base_path` option to
set the path to be prefixed to the image:

```yaml
easy_admin:
    entities:
        Product:
            class: AppBundle\Entity\Product
            list:
                fields:
                    - { property: 'photo', format: 'image', base_path: '/img/' }
                    # ...
    # ...
```

The value of the `base_path` can be a relative or absolute URL and even a
Symfony parameter:

```yaml
# relative path
- { property: 'photo', format: 'image', base_path: '/img/products/' }

# absolute path pointing to an external host
- { property: 'photo', format: 'image', base_path: 'http://static.acme.org/img/' }

# Symfony container parameter
- { property: 'photo', format: 'image', base_path: '%vich_uploader.mappings.product_image%' }
```

The image base path can also be set in the entity, to avoid repeating its
value for different fields or different actions (`list`, `show`):

```yaml
easy_admin:
    entities:
        Product:
            class: AppBundle\Entity\Product
            image_base_path: 'http://static.acme.org/img/'
            list:
                fields:
                    - { property: 'photo', format: 'image' }
                    # ...
    # ...
```

The base paths defined for a field always have priority over the one defined
for the entity.
