Resources/doc/tutorials/custom-property-options.md, before:

How to Define Custom Options for Entity Properties
==================================================

This article explains how to define custom options for any entity property and
how to use those options in the `list`, `search` or `show` views. This technique
is useful for complex or highly customized backends, but it should be used
sparingly because it could require you some maintenance work when new versions
of this bundle are released.

Default Property Options
------------------------

Properties included in the `fields` option of any entity can define several
options (`property`, `label`, `template`, `type`, `help` and `css_class`):

```yaml
# app/config.yml
easy_admin:
    entities:
        User:
            class: AppBundle\Entity\User
            list:
                fields:
                    - { property: 'email', label: 'Contact' }
                    - { property: 'biography', help: 'Markdown allowed' }
                    # ...
```

Custom Property Options
-----------------------

Adding custom options is as simple as defining their names and values in each
property configuration. Imagine that you want to translate the contents of a
property called `name` in the `list` view. To do so, define a custom option
called `trans` which indicates if the property should be translated and another
option called `domain` which defines the name of the translation domain to use:

```yaml
# app/config.yml
Product:
    class: AppBundle\Entity\Product
    label: 'Products'
    list:
        fields:
            - id
            - { property: 'name', trans: true, domain: 'messages' }
            # ...
```

### Using Custom Property Options in Templates

Property templates receive a parameter called `field_options` which is an array
that contains all the options defined in the configuration file for that
property. If you add custom options, they will also be available in that
`field_options` parameter. This allows you to add custom logic to templates very
easily.

Considering that the `name` property is of type `string`, override the built-in
`field_string.html.twig` templateto add support for the `trans` and `domain`
options:

```twig
{# app/Resources/views/easy_admin/field_string.html.twig #}

{% if field_options.trans|default(false) %}
    {# translate fields defined as "translatable" #}
    {{ value|trans({}, field_options.domain|default('messages')) }}
{% else %}
    {# if not translatable, simply include the default template #}
    {{ include('@EasyAdmin/default/field_string.html.twig') }}
{% endif %}
```

If the custom logic is too complex, it may be better to render the property with
its own custom template to not mess the default templates too much. In the
following example, the backend wants to display a collection of tags with the
colors configured for the property.

Since this business logic is too specific, it's better to not reuse the
corresponding default template. The solution is to define a custom template just
for this property and make use of the `label_colors` custom option:

```yaml
# app/config.yml
easy_admin:
    entities:
        Product:
            class: AppBundle\Entity\Product
            list:
                fields:
                    # ...
                    - { property: 'tags', template: 'tag_collection.html.twig',
                        label_colors: ['primary', 'success', 'info'] }
```

The custom `tag_collection.html.twig` template would look as follows:

```twig
{# app/Resources/views/easy_admin/tag_collection.html.twig #}

{% set colors = field_options.label_colors|default(['primary']) %}

{% for tag in value %}
    <span class="label label-{{ cycle(colors, loop.index) }}">{{ tag }}</span>
{% endfor %}
```

And this property would be rendered in the `list` view as follows:

![Default listing interface](../images/easyadmin-design-customization-custom-data-types.png)

Custom Entity Options
---------------------

This very same technique can be applied to entities too. Since the configuration
options are not constrained, you can add as many custom entity properties as
needed. Just define their name and value to use them everywhere on the backend:

```yaml
# app/config.yml
easy_admin:
    entities:
        User:
            class: AppBundle\Entity\User
            export_path: '%kernel.root_dir/../var/export/user'
            password_encoding: { algorithm: 'bcrypt', cost: 12 }
            # ...
```

In the above example, the backend defines the `export_path` and `password_encoding`
custom options, which will be included by EasyAdmin in the processed `User`
configuration.

Instead of defining the custom options at the same level of the built-in options,
it's better to define them under a custom parent option. This eases the maintenance
of your custom options and reduces the risk of option name collisions. You can
even use the name of your project as the name of the parent option:

```yaml
# app/config.yml
easy_admin:
    entities:
        User:
            class: AppBundle\Entity\User
            acme_project:
                export_path: '%kernel.root_dir/../var/export/user'
                password_encoding: { algorithm: 'bcrypt', cost: 12 }
            # ...
```

Commit message:

Allow to use a custom translation domain

Resources/doc/tutorials/custom-property-options.md, after:

How to Define Custom Options for Entity Properties
==================================================

This article explains how to define custom options for any entity property and
how to use those options in the `list`, `search` or `show` views. This technique
is useful for complex or highly customized backends, but it should be used
sparingly because it could require you some maintenance work when new versions
of this bundle are released.

Default Property Options
------------------------

Properties included in the `fields` option of any entity can define several
options (`property`, `label`, `template`, `type`, `help` and `css_class`):

```yaml
# app/config.yml
easy_admin:
    entities:
        User:
            class: AppBundle\Entity\User
            list:
                fields:
                    - { property: 'email', label: 'Contact' }
                    - { property: 'biography', help: 'Markdown allowed' }
                    # ...
```

Custom Property Options
-----------------------

> **NOTE**
>
> After the publication of this article, EasyAdmin added a new configuration
> option called `translation_domain` which defines the domain used when
> translating contents (default value = `messages`).

Adding custom options is as simple as defining their names and values in each
property configuration. Imagine that you want to translate the contents of a
property called `name` in the `list` view. To do so, define a custom option
called `trans` which indicates if the property should be translated and another
option called `domain` which defines the name of the translation domain to use:

```yaml
# app/config.yml
Product:
    class: AppBundle\Entity\Product
    label: 'Products'
    list:
        fields:
            - id
            - { property: 'name', trans: true, domain: 'messages' }
            # ...
```

### Using Custom Property Options in Templates

Property templates receive a parameter called `field_options` which is an array
that contains all the options defined in the configuration file for that
property. If you add custom options, they will also be available in that
`field_options` parameter. This allows you to add custom logic to templates very
easily.

Considering that the `name` property is of type `string`, override the built-in
`field_string.html.twig` templateto add support for the `trans` and `domain`
options:

```twig
{# app/Resources/views/easy_admin/field_string.html.twig #}

{% if field_options.trans|default(false) %}
    {# translate fields defined as "translatable" #}
    {{ value|trans({}, field_options.domain|default('messages')) }}
{% else %}
    {# if not translatable, simply include the default template #}
    {{ include('@EasyAdmin/default/field_string.html.twig') }}
{% endif %}
```

If the custom logic is too complex, it may be better to render the property with
its own custom template to not mess the default templates too much. In the
following example, the backend wants to display a collection of tags with the
colors configured for the property.

Since this business logic is too specific, it's better to not reuse the
corresponding default template. The solution is to define a custom template just
for this property and make use of the `label_colors` custom option:

```yaml
# app/config.yml
easy_admin:
    entities:
        Product:
            class: AppBundle\Entity\Product
            list:
                fields:
                    # ...
                    - { property: 'tags', template: 'tag_collection.html.twig',
                        label_colors: ['primary', 'success', 'info'] }
```

The custom `tag_collection.html.twig` template would look as follows:

```twig
{# app/Resources/views/easy_admin/tag_collection.html.twig #}

{% set colors = field_options.label_colors|default(['primary']) %}

{% for tag in value %}
    <span class="label label-{{ cycle(colors, loop.index) }}">{{ tag }}</span>
{% endfor %}
```

And this property would be rendered in the `list` view as follows:

![Default listing interface](../images/easyadmin-design-customization-custom-data-types.png)

Custom Entity Options
---------------------

This very same technique can be applied to entities too. Since the configuration
options are not constrained, you can add as many custom entity properties as
needed. Just define their name and value to use them everywhere on the backend:

```yaml
# app/config.yml
easy_admin:
    entities:
        User:
            class: AppBundle\Entity\User
            export_path: '%kernel.root_dir/../var/export/user'
            password_encoding: { algorithm: 'bcrypt', cost: 12 }
            # ...
```

In the above example, the backend defines the `export_path` and `password_encoding`
custom options, which will be included by EasyAdmin in the processed `User`
configuration.

Instead of defining the custom options at the same level of the built-in options,
it's better to define them under a custom parent option. This eases the maintenance
of your custom options and reduces the risk of option name collisions. You can
even use the name of your project as the name of the parent option:

```yaml
# app/config.yml
easy_admin:
    entities:
        User:
            class: AppBundle\Entity\User
            acme_project:
                export_path: '%kernel.root_dir/../var/export/user'
                password_encoding: { algorithm: 'bcrypt', cost: 12 }
            # ...
```
