Resources/doc/tutorials/custom-actions.md, before:

How to Define Custom Actions
============================

One of the most powerful features of EasyAdmin is the possibility of defining
your own actions. In addition to the built-in `edit`, `list`, `new`, `search`,
`delete` and `show` actions, you can create any number of custom actions and
display them in any view (`edit`, `list`, `new`, `search`, `show`).

There are two types of custom actions:

 * **Method** based actions, which execute a method of the AdminController
   class. This is the default type in EasyAdmin;
 * **Route** based actions, which execute the controller associated with the
   given route (and which can be defined anywhere in your application).

Method Based Actions
--------------------

This is the most simple type of action and it just executes a method of the
AdminController associated with the backend. Suppose that in your backend, one
of the most common tasks is to restock a product adding 100 units to its current
stock. Instead of editing a product, manually adding those 100 units and saving
the changes, you can display a new `Restock` action in the `list` view.

First, define a new `restock` action using the `actions` option:

```yaml
easy_admin:
    entities:
        Product:
            list:
                actions: ['restock']
        # ...
```

If you reload the backend, you'll see a new `Restock` action displayed as a link
in the *Actions* column of the `Product` entity listing. However, if you click
on any of the `Restock` links, you'll see an error because the `restockAction()`
method is not defined in the AdminController.

Therefore, the next step is to create a custom `AdminController` in your
Symfony application and to make it extend from the base AdminController
provided by EasyAdmin. This process will take you less than a minute and it's
explained in detail in the *Customization Based on Controller Methods* section
in the [Customization Based on Controller Methods][1].

Now you can define the `restockAction()` method in your own controller:

```php
// src/AppBundle/Controller/AdminController.php
namespace AppBundle\Controller;

// ...

class AdminController extends BaseAdminController
{
    // ...

    public function restockAction()
    {
        // controllers extending the base AdminController can access to the
        // following variables:
        //   $this->request, stores the current request
        //   $this->em, stores the Entity Manager for this Doctrine entity

        // change the properties of the given entity and save the changes
        $id = $this->request->query->get('id');
        $entity = $this->em->getRepository('AppBundle:Product')->find($id);
        $entity->setStock(100 + $entity->getStock());
        $this->em->flush();

        // redirect to the 'list' view of the given entity
        return $this->redirectToRoute('easyadmin', array(
            'action' => 'list',
            'entity' => $this->request->query->get('entity'),
        ));

        // redirect to the 'edit' view of the given entity item
        return $this->redirectToRoute('easyadmin', array(
            'action' => 'edit',
            'id' => $id,
            'entity' => $this->request->query->get('entity'),
        ));
    }
}
```

And that's it! Click again on the `Restock` action and everything will work as
expected. Custom actions can define any of the properties available for the
built-in actions:

```yaml
easy_admin:
    entities:
        Product:
            list:
                actions:
                    - { name: 'restock', icon: 'plus-square' }
        # ...
```

The inheritance of actions is also applied to custom actions:

```yaml
easy_admin:
    list:
        # show the 'restock' action for all entities except those who remove it
        actions:
            - { name: 'restock', icon: 'plus-square' }

    entities:
        Product:
            # ...
        User:
            list:
                actions: ['-restock']
            # ...
```

Route Based Actions
-------------------

This type of actions allows you to execute any controller defined in your
existing application, without the need to define a custom AdminController. In
this case, the `name` of the action is treated as the route name and you must
add a `type` option with the `route` value:

```yaml
easy_admin:
    entities:
        Product:
            list:
                actions:
                    - { name: 'product_restock', type: 'route' }
        # ...
```

Route based actions are displayed as regular links or buttons, but they don't
link to the usual `easyadmin` route but to the route configured by the action.
In addition, the route is passed two parameters in the query string: `entity`
(the name of the entity) and, when available, the `id` of the related entity.

Following the same example as above, the controller of this route based action
would look as follows:

```php
// src/AppBundle/Controller/ProductController.php
namespace AppBundle\Controller;

// ...

class ProductController extends Controller
{
    // ...

    /**
     * @Route(path = "/admin/product/restock", name = "product_restock")
     * @Security("has_role('ROLE_ADMIN')")
     */
    public function restockAction()
    {
        // change the properties of the given entity and save the changes
        $em = $this->getDoctrine()->getManager();
        $repository = $this->getDoctrine()->getRepository('AppBundle:Product');

        $id = $this->request->query->get('id');
        $entity = $repository->find($id);
        $entity->setStock(100 + $entity->getStock());
        $em->flush();

        // redirect to the 'list' view of the given entity
        return $this->redirectToRoute('easyadmin', array(
            'action' => 'list',
            'entity' => $this->request->query->get('entity'),
        ));

        // redirect to the 'edit' view of the given entity item
        return $this->redirectToRoute('easyadmin', array(
            'action' => 'edit',
            'id' => $id,
            'entity' => $this->request->query->get('entity'),
        ));
    }
}
```

Similarly to method based actions, you can configure any option for these
actions (icons, labels, etc.) and you can also leverage the action inheritance
mechanism.

[1]: ../book/3-list-search-show-configuration.md#customization-based-on-controller-methods

Commit message:

Updated link controller customization
It's my best guess for what the link should be. The existing one does not have that section.

Resources/doc/tutorials/custom-actions.md, after:

How to Define Custom Actions
============================

One of the most powerful features of EasyAdmin is the possibility of defining
your own actions. In addition to the built-in `edit`, `list`, `new`, `search`,
`delete` and `show` actions, you can create any number of custom actions and
display them in any view (`edit`, `list`, `new`, `search`, `show`).

There are two types of custom actions:

 * **Method** based actions, which execute a method of the AdminController
   class. This is the default type in EasyAdmin;
 * **Route** based actions, which execute the controller associated with the
   given route (and which can be defined anywhere in your application).

Method Based Actions
--------------------

This is the most simple type of action and it just executes a method of the
AdminController associated with the backend. Suppose that in your backend, one
of the most common tasks is to restock a product adding 100 units to its current
stock. Instead of editing a product, manually adding those 100 units and saving
the changes, you can display a new `Restock` action in the `list` view.

First, define a new `restock` action using the `actions` option:

```yaml
easy_admin:
    entities:
        Product:
            list:
                actions: ['restock']
        # ...
```

If you reload the backend, you'll see a new `Restock` action displayed as a link
in the *Actions* column of the `Product` entity listing. However, if you click
on any of the `Restock` links, you'll see an error because the `restockAction()`
method is not defined in the AdminController.

Therefore, the next step is to create a custom `AdminController` in your
Symfony application and to make it extend from the base AdminController
provided by EasyAdmin. This process will take you less than a minute and it's
explained in detail in the *Customization Based on Controller Methods* section
in the [Customization Based on Controller Methods][1].

Now you can define the `restockAction()` method in your own controller:

```php
// src/AppBundle/Controller/AdminController.php
namespace AppBundle\Controller;

// ...

class AdminController extends BaseAdminController
{
    // ...

    public function restockAction()
    {
        // controllers extending the base AdminController can access to the
        // following variables:
        //   $this->request, stores the current request
        //   $this->em, stores the Entity Manager for this Doctrine entity

        // change the properties of the given entity and save the changes
        $id = $this->request->query->get('id');
        $entity = $this->em->getRepository('AppBundle:Product')->find($id);
        $entity->setStock(100 + $entity->getStock());
        $this->em->flush();

        // redirect to the 'list' view of the given entity
        return $this->redirectToRoute('easyadmin', array(
            'action' => 'list',
            'entity' => $this->request->query->get('entity'),
        ));

        // redirect to the 'edit' view of the given entity item
        return $this->redirectToRoute('easyadmin', array(
            'action' => 'edit',
            'id' => $id,
            'entity' => $this->request->query->get('entity'),
        ));
    }
}
```

And that's it! Click again on the `Restock` action and everything will work as
expected. Custom actions can define any of the properties available for the
built-in actions:

```yaml
easy_admin:
    entities:
        Product:
            list:
                actions:
                    - { name: 'restock', icon: 'plus-square' }
        # ...
```

The inheritance of actions is also applied to custom actions:

```yaml
easy_admin:
    list:
        # show the 'restock' action for all entities except those who remove it
        actions:
            - { name: 'restock', icon: 'plus-square' }

    entities:
        Product:
            # ...
        User:
            list:
                actions: ['-restock']
            # ...
```

Route Based Actions
-------------------

This type of actions allows you to execute any controller defined in your
existing application, without the need to define a custom AdminController. In
this case, the `name` of the action is treated as the route name and you must
add a `type` option with the `route` value:

```yaml
easy_admin:
    entities:
        Product:
            list:
                actions:
                    - { name: 'product_restock', type: 'route' }
        # ...
```

Route based actions are displayed as regular links or buttons, but they don't
link to the usual `easyadmin` route but to the route configured by the action.
In addition, the route is passed two parameters in the query string: `entity`
(the name of the entity) and, when available, the `id` of the related entity.

Following the same example as above, the controller of this route based action
would look as follows:

```php
// src/AppBundle/Controller/ProductController.php
namespace AppBundle\Controller;

// ...

class ProductController extends Controller
{
    // ...

    /**
     * @Route(path = "/admin/product/restock", name = "product_restock")
     * @Security("has_role('ROLE_ADMIN')")
     */
    public function restockAction()
    {
        // change the properties of the given entity and save the changes
        $em = $this->getDoctrine()->getManager();
        $repository = $this->getDoctrine()->getRepository('AppBundle:Product');

        $id = $this->request->query->get('id');
        $entity = $repository->find($id);
        $entity->setStock(100 + $entity->getStock());
        $em->flush();

        // redirect to the 'list' view of the given entity
        return $this->redirectToRoute('easyadmin', array(
            'action' => 'list',
            'entity' => $this->request->query->get('entity'),
        ));

        // redirect to the 'edit' view of the given entity item
        return $this->redirectToRoute('easyadmin', array(
            'action' => 'edit',
            'id' => $id,
            'entity' => $this->request->query->get('entity'),
        ));
    }
}
```

Similarly to method based actions, you can configure any option for these
actions (icons, labels, etc.) and you can also leverage the action inheritance
mechanism.

[1]: ../book/7-complex-dynamic-backends.md#customization-based-on-overriding-the-default-admincontroller
