Resources/doc/book/installation.rst, before:

Chapter 1. Installation
=======================

Installing EasyAdmin requires you to edit two files and execute two console
commands:

Step 1: Download the Bundle
---------------------------

Open a command console, enter your project directory and execute the
following command to download the latest stable version of this bundle:

.. code-block:: terminal

    $ composer require javiereguiluz/easyadmin-bundle

This command requires you to have Composer installed globally, as explained
in the `Composer documentation`_.

Step 2: Enable the Bundle
-------------------------

Then, enable the bundle by adding it to the list of registered bundles in the
``app/AppKernel.php`` file of your project:

.. code-block:: php

    <?php
    // app/AppKernel.php

    // ...
    class AppKernel extends Kernel
    {
        public function registerBundles()
        {
            $bundles = array(
                // ...
                new JavierEguiluz\Bundle\EasyAdminBundle\EasyAdminBundle(),
            );
        }

        // ...
    }

Step 3: Load the Routes of the Bundle
-------------------------------------

Load the routes of the bundle by adding this configuration at the very beginning
of the ``app/config/routing.yml`` file:

.. code-block:: yaml

    # app/config/routing.yml
    easy_admin_bundle:
        resource: "@EasyAdminBundle/Controller/"
        type:     annotation
        prefix:   /admin

    # ...

Step 4: Prepare the Web Assets of the Bundle
--------------------------------------------

This bundle uses several CSS, JavaScript and font files to create the backend
interfaces. Execute the following command to make those assets available in your
Symfony application:

.. code-block:: terminal

    # Symfony 2
    $ php app/console assets:install --symlink

    # Symfony 3
    $ php bin/console assets:install --symlink

That's it! Now everything is ready to create your first admin backend.

.. _`Composer documentation`: https://getcomposer.org/doc/00-intro.md

Commit message:

[Doc] Preparing docs for Symfony Flex

Resources/doc/book/installation.rst, after:

Chapter 1. Installation
=======================

Installation Using Symfony Flex
-------------------------------

Symfony Flex is the new way to manage dependencies on Symfony applications that
use Symfony 3.3 or higher. If you already use Symfony Flex, execute this command
to download, register and configure the bundle automatically:

.. code-block:: terminal

    $ composer require javiereguiluz/easyadmin-bundle

Installation without Symfony Flex
---------------------------------

Installing EasyAdmin without Symfony Flex requires you to edit two files and
execute two console commands:

Step 1: Download the Bundle
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Open a command console, enter your project directory and execute the
following command to download the latest stable version of this bundle:

.. code-block:: terminal

    $ composer require javiereguiluz/easyadmin-bundle

This command requires you to have Composer installed globally, as explained
in the `Composer documentation`_.

Step 2: Enable the Bundle
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Then, enable the bundle by adding it to the list of registered bundles in the
``app/AppKernel.php`` file of your project:

.. code-block:: php

    <?php
    // app/AppKernel.php

    // ...
    class AppKernel extends Kernel
    {
        public function registerBundles()
        {
            $bundles = array(
                // ...
                new JavierEguiluz\Bundle\EasyAdminBundle\EasyAdminBundle(),
            );
        }

        // ...
    }

Step 3: Load the Routes of the Bundle
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Load the routes of the bundle by adding this configuration at the very beginning
of the ``app/config/routing.yml`` file:

.. code-block:: yaml

    # app/config/routing.yml
    easy_admin_bundle:
        resource: "@EasyAdminBundle/Controller/"
        type:     annotation
        prefix:   /admin

    # ...

Step 4: Prepare the Web Assets of the Bundle
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This bundle uses several CSS, JavaScript and font files to create the backend
interfaces. Execute the following command to make those assets available in your
Symfony application:

.. code-block:: terminal

    # Symfony 2
    $ php app/console assets:install --symlink

    # Symfony 3
    $ php bin/console assets:install --symlink

That's it! Now everything is ready to create your first admin backend.

.. _`Composer documentation`: https://getcomposer.org/doc/00-intro.md
